[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There are four
states of consciousness.
There's wakefulness.
There is sleep.
There is dreaming.
And then there is the
transcendental moment.
Most people spend the
majority of their lives
living in the first three
realms of consciousness.
And the last state
of consciousness,
the lucid,
transcendental moments,
seem to be rare occasions that
sneak up on us, where we're
more awake in a
dream than we are
in the three-dimensional
reality we live in.
Are these rare moments
reserved for coincidence
when we pierce through the
veil of our own conditioning
to get a greater glimpse
of the world we live in?
Some people spend the
majority of their lives trying
to replicate that experience.
Once you understand
that you come preloaded
with all the biological
and neurological machinery
to induce that
state, then you can
comprehend that there's a
bridge between space-time
and time-space that you can
access through the activation
of your own pineal gland.
It's my hope that
you'll be inspired
to create that
transcendental state
without any use of any drug
or exogenous substance.
I'm your host, Dr. Joe Dispenza.
And in the previous
episode, we discussed
how the pineal gland, with
its tiny micro crystals,
can become
electrically activated.
We also explored the
role of the pineal gland
and its piezoelectric
properties.
When there's a
mechanical stress applied
through a specific breath
that you've learned,
the body begins to
function as a magnet,
producing an external
electromagnetic field.
In a sense, we are liberating
energy from the body
that you can now
use to create with.
In this episode, I want to
continue your understanding
of how those tiny micro crystals
that become electrically
activated can begin to oscillate
and pick up frequencies
that are beyond the senses.
This is when the pineal gland
becomes like a radio receiver,
capable of transducing
those frequencies that
carry vital information
into meaningful imagery.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let's get started
by briefly reviewing
some of the things we've
learned in the previous episode.
So in the article that we talked
about in the last episode,
I asked you to remember
two specific words--
piezoelectric and transducer.
Now, we've discussed
piezoelectric in detail.
The breath that we use to move
that cerebral spinal fluid up
to the brain, the slow, steady
inhalation through the nose,
and the contraction
of the bandas,
the individual intrinsic
muscles, coordinated
with the breath, locking
down those centers
and drawing that energy all the
way up to your pineal gland,
and keeping your attention
on it and holding your breath
increases what's called
intrathecal pressure.
And intrathecal
pressure is the pressure
inside that closed system.
When you begin to contract
those intrinsic muscles,
that begins to apply
a mechanical stress
against those stacked,
rhombohedron crystals.
And once there's a
mechanical stress,
now they become
electrically activated.
And the sympathetic
nervous system switches on,
and that energy is
released up into the brain
and that gate opens
up, now we have energy
moving to the top of the head.
Now we have a positive
charge on the top
of the head and a
negative charge,
and as that energy
moves, we begin
to produce that external
electromagnetic field,
a torus field.
The other word that I wanted
you to pay attention to
was transducer.
A transducer is a device
that converts variations
in physical quantity, such
as pressure like we talked
about, into an electrical
signal, or vice versa.
It is anything that
receives a signal
in the form of
one type of energy
and converts it to a
signal of another form.
For example, your TV
antenna picks up frequencies
and transduces it into imagery,
and that's exactly what
the pineal gland does.
Take a look at this chart of
the electromagnetic spectrum.
You can see very slow waves
with very long wavelengths.
And you can see, on the other
end, very high frequencies
called cosmic rays.
And as we said, when your
eyes are picking up light,
the wavelength of
that light begins
to activate serotonin
and melatonin,
and now we function in
three-dimensional reality.
Imagine in a meditation
your eyes are closed,
melatonin levels are
elevated because your eye
is no longer perceiving light.
There's an activation
of the pineal gland.
Once those crystals become
electrically activated,
now they function
like a radio receiver,
and they can pick
up frequencies that
are no longer consistent
with visible light.
Anything that's
material that travels
through the speed of light
will turn into energy,
and the quantum field exists
beyond the speed of light.
Now why is that important?
Because once the pineal
gland is activated,
and now it functions
like a radio receiver,
what is the physics that
combines the frequency
that we're tapping into with
our biology in our brain?
The purpose of meditation is to
get beyond the analytical mind.
And as you learned in
previous episodes, what
separates the conscious mind
from the subconscious mind
is the analytical mind.
And we could say, then, the
memory bank of the known self,
the seat of our
identity, our connection
to our known three-dimensional
reality is the neocortex.
As you begin to slow
your brainwaves down
in meditation from beta to
alpha, and slowing down even
further into theta,
you begin to suppress
thinking in the neocortex.
And as you're no
longer analyzing
and you're no longer thinking,
brain waves begin to slow down
and consciousness literally
moves out of the neocortex
and begins to move right
into that limbic brain.
Now a person is conscious
in their subconscious mind.
And now the door between the
conscious mind and subconscious
mind is open, and now they're
ready to access information.
In other words, if your
analytical thinking mind
is functioning in
high beta, you're
separated from the
operating system
where you can begin to
connect to the quantum field.
So by practicing slowing
your brainwaves down
and suppressing the
neocortex, now you
can use your radio receiver to
begin to tune into frequencies
that exist beyond your senses.
Now take a look at
this image of a neuron.
A neuron receives input
through its dendrites.
It processes all of
the information coming
from all of those branches and
integrates that information,
processes that information, and
then sends the information out
in an output mechanism.
Now I want to talk
about the transduction
mechanism in the brain.
Now once the pineal gland
becomes electrically activated,
once those micro crystals
begin to shimmer and oscillate,
they can tune into frequencies
that exist beyond your senses.
And now information in
the form of frequency
can be received as input
into the pineal gland.
The pineal gland begins to
process it in the thalamus
and in the hypothalamus.
And the hypothalamus, then,
begins to send signals
to the pituitary gland.
And the pituitary gland begins
to become the output mechanism
and begins to release
very vital neuropeptides.
Remember, the quantum field is
an invisible field of frequency
that unifies and connects
everything material.
And its signature, as
you get closer and closer
to that very source energy,
are greater and greater degrees
of order, of harmony, of
wholeness, of oneness.
So when the pineal
gland and the brain
is functioning in a
very coherent manner,
it can now pick up a
signal and the orderliness
begins to produce a very
orderly chemical expression that
begins to influence every one of
the hormonal centers, or energy
centers, of the body.
At the very exact same time,
the back part of the pituitary
called the posterior
pituitary, begins
to release different chemicals
in the output mechanism.
And one of those chemicals
is called oxytocin.
Now oxytocin is produced in
the brain and in the heart.
And once oxytocin
levels are released,
oxytocin seeps right into the
amygdala, the survival center
of the brain, and it shuts the
lights out for fear, for pain,
and for aggression or anger.
And there's only a
group of circuits
left called love and joy.
And all of a sudden,
then, oxytocin
signals a chemical
called nitric oxide.
Nitric oxide signals
another chemical
called endothelial-derived
relaxing factor.
And that chemical
causes the arteries
in the heart and the
lungs to literally dilate.
And now we have more energy
and more blood flow going right
into the heart, and this
center begins to awaken,
and the person starts to
feel an incredible gratitude
for being alive.
Now, the emotional
signature of gratitude
when you are receiving
something or something that's
just happened to that you find
pleasurable, you say thank you.
So the emotional
signature of gratitude
means something's
happening to you
or something has
happened to you,
and you're in the ultimate
state of receiving.
Now that we're in the
state of receiving,
something amazing happens.
All of a sudden now
there's processing
that goes back from the
pineal gland right back
to the pituitary, which
then affects the thyroid.
It affects the heart
and the thalamus,
and all the way down
the energy centers,
and there's a cascade of
chemistry that's created.
Let's remember what happens
when we do the breath.
As you begin to move that energy
up from those lower centers,
once energy makes it
to the fourth center,
the energy will continue
up into the brain.
As it moves up and
activates the pineal gland,
and the pineal gland begins
to signal the pituitary, now
all of a sudden it begins
to release its neuropeptides
and neurohormones, we
now know that there's
an external
electromagnetic field.
Now, when the person
starts to feel gratitude,
they're in the perfect
state of receiving.
And now there's a
reverse field that's
coming in through the
top of the head that
begins to draw energy from the
field right into the brain.
And that frequency is
carrying information.
And this, then, is when
the pineal gland causes
melatonin to get an upgrade.
This article that I found
shows that melatonin
has many derivatives, or what
we call metabolites or sister
molecules.
Serotonin and melatonin are
dependent through our senses
on the frequency and the
wavelength of visible light.
You close your eyes now,
and all of a sudden you're
no longer processing
visible light.
Melatonin levels start to
go up, and the pineal gland
begins to receive the input and
begin to activate the pituitary
to create more coordination,
or more neuropeptides that
create more harmony in
the hormonal centers.
And the posterior pituitary
begins to release oxytocin,
and the person feels
grateful to be alive.
One field that's going
out, all of a sudden
that second field reverses,
and that frequency
now is going to cause
melatonin to get an upgrade.
In other words,
melatonin, now, is
going to transmute, or change,
into some very powerful
molecules.
And in this article,
it's very specific
that melatonin is
already an antioxidant.
But now melatonin gets
a very big upgrade.
And now it produces two of
the most powerful antioxidants
known to man.
Now, what's the
significance of that?
Antioxidants are anti-cancer,
anti-aging, anti-stroke,
anti-neurodegenerative,
anti-inflammatory,
anti-microbial.
Melatonin already
causes us to relax,
but now it's going to
begin to produce what's
called the benzodiazepine.
These chemicals fit
into the same receptors
as serotonin and
melatonin, but they
carry a very different message.
The release of these
benzodiazepines
is literally going to
sedate further the neocortex
and shut down the survival
centers in the brain.
And there's a suppression
of overthinking,
of over-analyzing, of thinking
about the future or the past,
the body relaxes into
the present moment.
Take that molecule
and tweak it again,
and you have the most
powerful hallucinogenic known
to man, dimethyltryptamine.
And now the person
is going to have
profound lucid inner vision.
In other words, melatonin
already causes us to sleep,
but when it becomes a
transducer, that frequency,
then, is transduced into
profound imagery, the same way
a TV antenna takes frequency
and turns it into a picture.
And the pineal gland has
been called the third eye
because we're having a profound
inner vision that is more
real than the world we live in.
And we can say,
then, the person is
having a full-on
sensory experience
without their senses.
And the second chemical made
from the posterior pituitary
is called vasopressin
antidiuretic hormone.
And when vasopressin
levels are elevated,
the cells of the body,
now, can store more water.
And now the cells are prepared
for a greater frequency.
And all of the cells, now, begin
to oscillate and produce more
coherent light and information.
And we could say, in
one moment, the person's
getting a biological upgrade.
Information from the field
is literally changing
the human operating system.
I want to talk about frequency
because most people think
that frequencies are just waves.
But I want you to think
about frequency another way.
Now, when the pineal gland
becomes electrically activated,
many times we start to see
these fractal patterns.
With our eyes open,
with our eyes closed,
we start to see these
complex geometric patterns.
And the more orderly
those patterns are,
the more coherent the energy is.
It is those standing
waves of energy
that the coherent brain
and the coherent heart
will begin to transduce
just like a barcode.
A laser reads the barcode and
interprets the information.
Pineal gland decodes
that information
into profound
pictures and imagery.
Here's my greatest definition
of the pineal gland.
"The pineal gland,
when fully activated,
is a crystalline superconductor
that receives information
through the transduction of
energetic vibrational signals--
that's frequencies beyond the
senses, the quantum field--
"into biological tissue,
the brain and the mind,
in the form of
meaningful imagery,
the same way as an antenna
translates different channels
onto a TV screen."
And when the pineal
gland is activated,
now we have information
that's being downloaded
into our nervous system that's
transcendent of our senses.
Now, what's the
side effect of that?
Here comes the profound
mystical moment.
You now may have the experience
of moving from space-time
to time-space where all
of those dimensions exist.
Now you may have the experience
of coming out of your body,
traveling down a
long tunnel of light,
your body being
filled with energy
that you are now perceiving.
You may experience
a past, present,
or future life that's all
happening in the eternal now.
I want to show you
just a few brain scans
to unify all this information.
This is normal brain
activity, and the person
is in low beta
brainwave patterns.
Now they go into a meditation.
We start to see the energy in
the brain begin to escalate.
That person is transitioning
from high beta,
and they're starting to move
into very coherent gamma.
By the same means,
this person is
having a full-on
sensory experience
without their senses.
This person, second-generation
Holocaust survivor suffering
from anxiety and depression.
A psychotherapist did everything
he could to change his state.
In one moment, this person has
a transcendental experience
that's transcendent of this
three-dimensional reality,
and in an instant, his
depression and his anxiety
changes and goes away.
Now, when we have
two waves that are
coherent that are oscillating
in order, or coherence,
they summate and
produce a higher wave.
Now, what's the
significance of that?
The higher the wave, the
higher the amplitude,
the higher the energy
in the brain, which
means the more coherent
the brain becomes,
the higher the energy
will exist in the brain.
Take a look at this
person at an event.
We do a normal baseline
measurement of her brain.
And then we start
noticing a few minutes
into her measurements
in real time,
you can see the energy in
the brain start to pick up.
And from that point on, it just
gets getting bigger and bigger.
And you can see right
here, the person
is transitioning from beta
into gamma brainwave patterns.
There'll come a moment where
you see it go very, very high.
And this is the moment now
the pineal gland is connecting
to the field and
that person is having
a very profound inner event.
We measure coherence when--
it's low coherence, we measure
it as blue, like it's cold
or it's cool.
Normal coherence
means it's pink.
There's no blue
or there's no red.
When there's high coherence,
or high order in the brain,
we measure it as red.
The thicker the red
lines, the further outside
of normal it is.
This is her scan.
If you look at the second
to the bottom line--
and we read from left to right--
you can see this person moving
into very high coherence
in the brain.
Take a look at the
top right-hand corner.
This particular program
does not read gamma,
but you can tell that the
person's in high beta,
and they're on
their way to gamma.
Now, when we measure, from
the spectral analysis,
the amount of gamma that's
taking place in her brain,
this person is 200
standard deviations outside
of normal in gamma
brainwave patterns.
Now let's talk about
standard deviations.
This is what's called a
Z-score, or a Z curve.
And a group of 100 people, or
1,000 people, or 10,000 people,
or 50 people, we were to measure
height, or weight, or hearing,
or vision, or intelligence,
no matter what we measured,
we would see this
standard bell curve.
Now, if you look where the
blue is, and you draw a line
right down the middle of that
bell, that's absolute normal.
And if you break
this bell curve up
into three sections,
34% a little bit
above normal, 34% a
little bit below normal--
we'll still call that
normal, and it makes up
the majority of the surface
area of that bell curve.
68% of the people we
call average or normal.
If you look at the red,
you see 13% on both sides,
and the curve dips
down a little bit more,
now you have somebody with
a little better eyesight
or with a little worse eyesight.
And then if you look
at the very extremity,
the third standard
deviation, you'll
see some people with
really great eyesight
and really poor eyesight.
Now, if you total up
the complete number,
99.7% of the population falls
three standard deviations
above normal or three standard
deviations below normal.
Now, we said this person had
200 standard deviations outside
of normal and gamma.
Now, this is a
measurement of height.
You could see the person on the
right is the tallest person.
The person on the left
is the shortest person.
But the average is the
center of that curve.
That's 99.7% of the population.
This is the standard
normal bell curve.
This is five
standard deviations.
This is 50 standard deviations.
This is 100 standard deviations.
This is 150 standard deviations.
This is 200 standard
deviations outside of normal.
In other words, another 197
of those blocks, and the line
just gets closer
and closer together.
I would call that a supernatural
amount of energy in the brain.
Take a look at the area of the
brain that's most activated.
That red area represents
the area right
around the pineal gland and an
area called Brodmann's area 30.
Now, Brodmann's area
30 is responsible
for highly-charged experiences
or emotional events that
produce the emotions of joy, of
love, of bliss, and of ecstasy.
And this person is having a
transcendental experience.
There's the neocortex in blue,
that means lights are out
in the thinking brain.
And now the autonomic
nervous system, in red there,
is the area that's
lit up the most.
That is the area that's
processing a greater frequency.
And now this is the
underside of the brain,
you're looking at the
brain from the bottom.
And you can see that the
autonomic nervous system
is very, very high
in a gamma state.
Now, this person is
a physician, and she
had eczema from the time
she was three months old.
And as a physician, she
did all the right things.
She applied the
cortisone creams.
She took the antihistamines.
She monitored her diet.
She didn't eat sugar.
She stayed away from starches.
She stayed away from alcohol.
She was treating the condition.
And of course, she was
able to keep it controlled,
but it never went away.
This is her arm before
she came to the event.
On the Monday after the
event this is her arm.
Her body received
a new frequency.
And if all disease is
a lowering of frequency
in an incoherent frequency, once
that orderly message made it
into the nervous system, she
got a biological upgrade.
Here's her hand with
eczema before the event.
This is her hand the
Monday after the event.
I just saw this woman,
almost two years later,
and she still has no evidence
or no sign of eczema.
Take a look at this person.
Baseline measurement,
and all of a sudden you
can see the
frequency picking up.
But look how organized and
coherent that frequency is.
This person taps out at
260 standard deviations
outside of normal.
That's a lot of
energy in the brain.
Check it out.
The same exact area,
the pineal gland,
the surrounding area
of the pineal gland,
and Brodmann's area 30.
This person is in ecstasy.
This person is creating
a long-term memory.
They're having a full-on
sensory experience
without their senses, and they
can't make their brain do that.
It's happening to them.
Here's another person.
Here's the strip chart for
measuring normal brainwaves.
Watch what happens.
As they begin to
connect to that field
and they suppress
the neocortex, you
can see a building of energy
that takes place in the brain.
And this person finishes
at 160 standard deviations
outside of normal.
And take a look at all the
coherence in his brain.
And when the brain is
coherent, we're coherent.
Now, another person.
You can see that there's
beta brainwave patterns.
And all of a sudden, like
in a matter of seconds,
it seems like the brain
starts to build in energy.
And as it starts to synchronize,
it starts to accelerate.
This person finishes at
250 standard deviations
outside of normal in gamma.
Every single area of the
brain is synchronized.
We're seeing, now, coherence
in delta, and theta, and alpha,
and beta, and high beta,
and there's enormous amount
of energy in the brain.
And the whole entire
neocortex, as well as
the pineal gland and
the surrounding areas,
is fully activated.
Check this out now.
What we started to
notice is that when
people begin to
do this properly,
the first thing that happens
is we start seeing theta
as a precursor before the person
goes into an aroused state.
In other words, they have
to settle their body down
and begin to move in such
a slow brainwave pattern
that now they're suppressing
the thinking neocortex,
and in low level theta, lights
are out in the identity.
The known self is now shut off.
And once they're in that
slow brainwave state,
it says if theta
acts as a carrier
wave, the parasympathetic
nervous system is activated.
The person is relaxed.
And now when they
lock into a frequency,
the arousal takes place.
Coherent theta becomes
the carrier for gamma.
And check this out.
The person is opening
their awareness
and connecting to the field
of energy and information.
And now we're seeing 10 standard
deviations outside of normal
in theta.
And whenever we see
this in a brain scan,
we know what's going
to happen next.
The person is going to
go into an aroused state.
This person is 200 standard
deviations outside of normal
as they travel from high
beta right into gamma.
Last one now.
We start to see body
is sleeping in theta.
The mind is very
active and very awake.
There's coherence in
every single brainwave
state from delta all
the way to high beta.
When we see this,
we know the person's
going from a slow
frequency of theta,
now they're operating
from their limbic brain.
If they can tune in like
a radio receiver and tune
into frequency and
information, all of a sudden,
here we go, there's that
theta brainwave state.
What's going to happen next?
It's going to start to build.
And next thing you know, they're
moving into that high gamma
brainwave state.
And that high gamma
brainwave state, then,
begins to cause the
area of the pineal gland
and Brodmann's area 30
to begin to switch on,
and that person moves to
400 standard deviations
outside of normal.
That's a lot of
energy in their brain.
So by now, I hope you
understand that when
the pineal gland
becomes activated,
it literally begins to
transduce powerful frequencies
into meaningful imagery.
Now, what's the
side effect of that?
When the person returns
back to their senses,
we don't see things how they
are, we see things how we are.
And since experience enriches
the brain-- and it does--
and experience produces an
emotion in the body, when
the person comes
back to their senses,
now their brain is
wired to perceive
what has always
existed, but they didn't
have the circuits to perceive.
And in a sense, our spectrum
of reality is broadened.
In the next episode, we're
going to discuss heart and brain
coherence and why it's so
important to have your brain
and heart synchronized.
When your nervous
system is balanced,
it sends a very coherent message
to all the cells and tissues
of your body, and
that's called health.
I'm your host, Dr. Joe
Dispenza, for "Rewired,"
and I hope to see you
in the next episode
where we go beyond the ordinary
into the extraordinary.
[MUSIC PLAYING]